# Mortgage-Calculator-With_Payment_Schedule

I chose to build this project to implement a very common real-world scenario using my early java skills when I was learning the language. 42% of american households have mortgages, which is equivalent to a little more than 51.5 million american households. Although there are many calculators that can calculate that for you, I decided to go a step beyond that and implement a payment schedule as well that accounted for monthly interest rates and for a max of 30 years.  

My biggest challenge in this project was the implementation of the monthly payments as every month I needed to account for the monthly interest rate through a formula. To achieve this aspect of the project, I decided to break down the formula into four segments and solve and debug each of them seperately to not just make sure I was recieving the right output, but to also have a higher level of understanding of the libraries I was using in java. Taking it slow and debugging throughout instead of leaving it all for the end was what made this project possbile to complete.  

My most significant takeaway about this project was to really understand the built in java libraries and use them to my advantage as they are their for a reason. A lot of feedback that I have heard from classmates is that they tend to stay away from functions or libraries that are already built-in to the language because they are afraid that they'll use it incorrectly. I have been able to learn and understand several java libraries like java.util, java.lang, and java.math by making errors and by recieving wrong outputs. 

